src/pages/guides/research.md, before:

---
title: "Research"
search_tags:
  - "zhen yu ding"
---

## Why do research?

### Advance the frontier of knowledge.

Researchers get a sneak peak at the future. Computer science, being a
relatively young field, is full of opportunities for exploration.
Young researchers are capable of making a large impact on the frontier of
computing thanks to the sheer extent of what remains unknown in CS.

### Preparation for research-based graduate programs.

Ph. D. and research-based masters programs focus on producing original
research. By conducting research in your UG years, you demonstrate your
ability to conduct research in graduate school.

### A stepping stone for industry.

Research will likely expose you to some industry-relevant technical
knowledge. Examples range from practical experience with a specific
tool (e.g.: a programming language, a machine learning library) to in-depth
knowledge of an industrially relevant domain (e.g.: software security,
natural language processing).

I claim that research is a strong alternative to personal projects.
Although supervised research doesn't provide the same freedom to choose
what you want to create and what technology stack you'll use, you will
get more mentorship and work in a team.

### Earn credits or $$$!!!

You can take CS1950 to fulfill your capstone, write and defend an honors
thesis to earn a Bachelors of Philosophy, or get paid in cold, hard cash
as a research assistant or intern!

## Getting started.

Getting your foot in the door might be intimidating: the ivory tower isn't
always an accessible place. Luckily for you, there is practically always
more demand than supply of research labor. This section describes several
possible pathways to get into research.

### Pitt CS undergraduate research symposium.

Pitt's CS department hosts an annual research symposium in the fall.
Professors give short presentations to pitch their research projects and
recruit undergraduate researchers.

You will have a chance to ask questions in a Q&A session. If you're interested
in a professor's pitch, I suggest asking a question or two; asking questions
demonstrate interest and makes you a little more memorable, which might be
helpful if you later ask to join the professor's research project.

### Doing well in a professor's class.

If you perform well and/or demonstrate research potential in an advanced class,
the professor might invite you to conduct research with them. Demonstrating
research potential is easier to achieve in classes that feature a research-y
project as part of the curriculum (e.g.: Human Language Technologies,
Deep Learning, some graduate classes).

### CS1980

Sometimes research projects show up as options for the CS1980 research project.

### Cold-emailing professors.

Suppose that you're considering doing research with Professor X.

First decide whether Professor X's research interests and/or current projects
are a good fit for you. If you had taken a class or attended a talk by
Professor X, then you probably already have an idea of their interests, although
I would still suggest digging a little deeper.

Go to Professor X's website
and look for a description of their research interests; this information might
be on their homepage, in their CV, or on a page dedicated for research.

To get more specific information on the professor's recent research interests,
I would suggest skimming over their recent publications (up to 3 years is my
recommendation). Look at the titles and maybe the abstracts of their
recent publications; reading entire papers is probably overboard for now
(unless if you're hooked, then read on!).

If you believe that Professor X is a good fit, then send an email to signal
your interest. Mention why you are interested in Professor X (e.g.: interest
in their research direction, their recent projects, you liked an advanced class
that they taught, you liked a lecture that they gave, et cetera), and if
applicable, mention any qualifications that make you well-suited for working
on a particular project or area of research.
Offer to set up a meeting and/or to drop in during office hours to discuss
potential research projects.

### REUs (for US citizens and permanent residents)

Many universities host REUs (research experience for undergraduates).
An REU is similar to an internship, except that you're working on research at
a university. REU positions are salaried (usually $4000-$6000 for a summer),
often come with university housing, and often invite you to seminars and talks
that can help with professional development as a scientist.

[Here's a search tool for finding REU programs.](https://www.nsf.gov/crssprgm/reu/reu_search.jsp)

REU programs generally have an overarching high-level focus (e.g: IoT,
computer systems, software engineering, algorithms) and a list research
projects or areas that are specific to a professor.

When applying to an REU, convince the decision-makers of the following:
- I am interested in 1+ of the REU's research areas.
- I am technically qualified to conduct research in 1+ of the
        REU's research areas.

Applications require up to 2 letters of recommendation from faculty members.
If you already have research experience with a professor, then definitely ask
your research supervisor to write a letter of recommendation. REU programs,
however, generally understand that many applicants will not have research
experience (students might come from a small school that's focused on teaching,
or their school might not conduct research in their area of interest).

### Other non-Pitt research programs.

Various foreign universities host research internships that accept
international applicants. Examples include:
- [ETH Zürich's Summer Research Fellowship](https://inf.ethz.ch/studies/summer-research-fellowship.html)
- [Summer@EPFL](https://summer.epfl.ch/).

Some other programs:
- [Broad Institute (biomedical research)](https://www.broadinstitute.org/bsrp/broad-summer-research-program-bsrp)
- [Distributed REU](https://cra.org/cra-wp/dreu/)
- Google previously listed a research internship position that welcomed
      applications from undergraduates (in addition to PhDs).
- [Microsoft Research](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/academic-program/undergraduate-research-internship-computing/)
- [MIT Lincoln Lab](https://www.ll.mit.edu/careers/student-opportunities)
- [NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory](https://jpl.jobs/university-recruiting)

### Do it alone.

There is no obligation that you must do scholarly research under the guidance
of someone more senior. A research advisor, however, is a tremendous resource
in conducting research, and I would counsel against taking on a large research
project without mentorship. The path to knowledge lies somewhere within an
infinitely large search space, and a good advisor will help you traverse
through the space and prune out false steps. In other words, research is hard,
and mentors make research easier.

## Reading research papers.

In the course of your research, you may need to read research papers. Instead of
giving advice myself, I invite you to read these articles:
- P. W. L. Fong [Reading a computer science research paper](https://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~pwlfong/Pub/inroads2009.pdf)
- W. G. Griswold. [How to read an engineering research paper](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html).
- S. Keshav. [How to read a paper](http://ccr.sigcomm.org/online/files/p83-keshavA.pdf).

Remember that the above articles provide advice, not mandatory rules.
Do what works best for you.

## Publicizing your research.

- Reasons for getting the word out.
- Solicit opinions and advice.
    Presenting your research to an audience is an opportunity to solicit advice
    for improvements and future research directions.
- Network with the research community.
    The people you meet while presenting your research might become future
    collaborators, research advisors, company references, et cetera. Some
    research conferences have industry sessions where you get to network with
    companies and get a foot in the door for a job or internship.
- Add to your resume.
    Research presentations–whether in the form of a paper, poster, talk,
    et cetera–serve as a evidence and recognition for your research, which
    can augment your resume. If you're applying to research-oriented graduate
    programs, then this evidence of research accomplishment further demonstrates
    your ability to produce presentable research.

### Pitt CSC talks.

You can schedule a talk at a club meeting!

### Pitt's research exhibitions.

Pitt hosts various research exhibitions and poster sessions at various times of
the year.

### Honors college thesis.

Pitt Honors College offers the [BPhil degree](https://www.honorscollege.pitt.edu/bphil),
which requires submitting and defending a thesis.

### Conference and journal papers.

Conferences are the primary venue for publishing scholarly CS research (this is
different from other scientific disciplines, where journals are typically the
primary venue). Conferences and journals employ peer review, where reviewers
provide feedback and decide whether to accept a paper for publication.

Terminology sidenote: in conferences, reviewers are members of a
*program committee*.

If a conference paper is accepted, one of the authors is expected to give an
oral (PowerPoint) presentation and engage with the audience in a Q&A session.
There are exceptions to this rule: at some very large conferences (e.g: NeurIPS,
ICCV), an author presents a poster instead of an oral presentation.

Beware of predatory conferences and journals. They have low publishing
standards and charge ridiculous fees (that's why they exist). If you get an
unsolicited email asking for you to submit to a conference/journal, there's a
decent chance that the venue is predatory.

### Conference posters and short papers.

Some conferences also accept posters or short-paper publications. Posters and
short papers generally have higher acceptance rates than full-on research
papers. Moreover, it's generally more acceptable to submit in-progress research
and early results in posters and short papers.

Typically, if you want to present a poster, then you need to actually first
write and submit a short paper or extended abstract, rather than submitting a
digital version of a poster. The conference will decide whether to invite you to
present a poster based on the contents of your written deliverable.

### Workshops.

Academic workshops are similar to conferences: they feature posters and/or oral
presentations. Workshops differ from conferences in term of size–they're
smaller–and scope–they tend to focus on a more narrow topic.

Workshops, like conference posters or short papers, are also more welcoming of
in-progress research and preliminary results, and their acceptance rates
are also often higher than full conference research papers.

The narrow topic of workshops often attracts that topic's forerunners, giving
the workshop attendee a very good opportunity to network with important people.

### Student research competitions.

Some conferences host [student research competitions](https://src.acm.org/).
Generally, the process is as follows:
1. Submit an extended abstract or other short written deliverable.
2. If the program committee accepts your abstract, then present a poster
    at the conference. Judges will talk to you about your poster and ask
    questions.
3. If judges like your poster, then give an oral presentation and have a
    Q&A with judges.
4. If judges like your presentation, win glory, prizes, and $$$ in a big
    awards ceremony!

Undergraduate and graduate students compete separately, so don't worry about
getting pwned by PhDs with 5 years of experience.

### arXiv.

arXiv is an online repository of preprints–early, non-reviewed scholarly
papers. Online preprints facilitate rapid sharing of new research. Some fields
(e.g: machine learning) upload dozens of preprints per day onto arXiv.

In addition to sharing preprints, you may also use arXiv to upload complete
research that is difficult to publish (e.g.: negative results, which are harder
to publish in conferences or journals).

If you intend to submit an article to both a conference/journal and arXiv, then
check the conference's/journal's policy on uploading to preprint servers. Some
prohibit concurrent submissions to both.

Commit message:

theory workshops are sometimes an exception

src/pages/guides/research.md, after:

---
title: "Research"
search_tags:
  - "zhen yu ding"
---

## Why do research?

### Advance the frontier of knowledge.

Researchers get a sneak peak at the future. Computer science, being a
relatively young field, is full of opportunities for exploration.
Young researchers are capable of making a large impact on the frontier of
computing thanks to the sheer extent of what remains unknown in CS.

### Preparation for research-based graduate programs.

Ph. D. and research-based masters programs focus on producing original
research. By conducting research in your UG years, you demonstrate your
ability to conduct research in graduate school.

### A stepping stone for industry.

Research will likely expose you to some industry-relevant technical
knowledge. Examples range from practical experience with a specific
tool (e.g.: a programming language, a machine learning library) to in-depth
knowledge of an industrially relevant domain (e.g.: software security,
natural language processing).

I claim that research is a strong alternative to personal projects.
Although supervised research doesn't provide the same freedom to choose
what you want to create and what technology stack you'll use, you will
get more mentorship and work in a team.

### Earn credits or $$$!!!

You can take CS1950 to fulfill your capstone, write and defend an honors
thesis to earn a Bachelors of Philosophy, or get paid in cold, hard cash
as a research assistant or intern!

## Getting started.

Getting your foot in the door might be intimidating: the ivory tower isn't
always an accessible place. Luckily for you, there is practically always
more demand than supply of research labor. This section describes several
possible pathways to get into research.

### Pitt CS undergraduate research symposium.

Pitt's CS department hosts an annual research symposium in the fall.
Professors give short presentations to pitch their research projects and
recruit undergraduate researchers.

You will have a chance to ask questions in a Q&A session. If you're interested
in a professor's pitch, I suggest asking a question or two; asking questions
demonstrate interest and makes you a little more memorable, which might be
helpful if you later ask to join the professor's research project.

### Doing well in a professor's class.

If you perform well and/or demonstrate research potential in an advanced class,
the professor might invite you to conduct research with them. Demonstrating
research potential is easier to achieve in classes that feature a research-y
project as part of the curriculum (e.g.: Human Language Technologies,
Deep Learning, some graduate classes).

### CS1980

Sometimes research projects show up as options for the CS1980 research project.

### Cold-emailing professors.

Suppose that you're considering doing research with Professor X.

First decide whether Professor X's research interests and/or current projects
are a good fit for you. If you had taken a class or attended a talk by
Professor X, then you probably already have an idea of their interests, although
I would still suggest digging a little deeper.

Go to Professor X's website
and look for a description of their research interests; this information might
be on their homepage, in their CV, or on a page dedicated for research.

To get more specific information on the professor's recent research interests,
I would suggest skimming over their recent publications (up to 3 years is my
recommendation). Look at the titles and maybe the abstracts of their
recent publications; reading entire papers is probably overboard for now
(unless if you're hooked, then read on!).

If you believe that Professor X is a good fit, then send an email to signal
your interest. Mention why you are interested in Professor X (e.g.: interest
in their research direction, their recent projects, you liked an advanced class
that they taught, you liked a lecture that they gave, et cetera), and if
applicable, mention any qualifications that make you well-suited for working
on a particular project or area of research.
Offer to set up a meeting and/or to drop in during office hours to discuss
potential research projects.

### REUs (for US citizens and permanent residents)

Many universities host REUs (research experience for undergraduates).
An REU is similar to an internship, except that you're working on research at
a university. REU positions are salaried (usually $4000-$6000 for a summer),
often come with university housing, and often invite you to seminars and talks
that can help with professional development as a scientist.

[Here's a search tool for finding REU programs.](https://www.nsf.gov/crssprgm/reu/reu_search.jsp)

REU programs generally have an overarching high-level focus (e.g: IoT,
computer systems, software engineering, algorithms) and a list research
projects or areas that are specific to a professor.

When applying to an REU, convince the decision-makers of the following:
- I am interested in 1+ of the REU's research areas.
- I am technically qualified to conduct research in 1+ of the
        REU's research areas.

Applications require up to 2 letters of recommendation from faculty members.
If you already have research experience with a professor, then definitely ask
your research supervisor to write a letter of recommendation. REU programs,
however, generally understand that many applicants will not have research
experience (students might come from a small school that's focused on teaching,
or their school might not conduct research in their area of interest).

### Other non-Pitt research programs.

Various foreign universities host research internships that accept
international applicants. Examples include:
- [ETH Zürich's Summer Research Fellowship](https://inf.ethz.ch/studies/summer-research-fellowship.html)
- [Summer@EPFL](https://summer.epfl.ch/).

Some other programs:
- [Broad Institute (biomedical research)](https://www.broadinstitute.org/bsrp/broad-summer-research-program-bsrp)
- [Distributed REU](https://cra.org/cra-wp/dreu/)
- Google previously listed a research internship position that welcomed
      applications from undergraduates (in addition to PhDs).
- [Microsoft Research](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/academic-program/undergraduate-research-internship-computing/)
- [MIT Lincoln Lab](https://www.ll.mit.edu/careers/student-opportunities)
- [NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory](https://jpl.jobs/university-recruiting)

### Do it alone.

There is no obligation that you must do scholarly research under the guidance
of someone more senior. A research advisor, however, is a tremendous resource
in conducting research, and I would counsel against taking on a large research
project without mentorship. The path to knowledge lies somewhere within an
infinitely large search space, and a good advisor will help you traverse
through the space and prune out false steps. In other words, research is hard,
and mentors make research easier.

## Reading research papers.

In the course of your research, you may need to read research papers. Instead of
giving advice myself, I invite you to read these articles:
- P. W. L. Fong [Reading a computer science research paper](https://pages.cpsc.ucalgary.ca/~pwlfong/Pub/inroads2009.pdf)
- W. G. Griswold. [How to read an engineering research paper](http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~wgg/CSE210/howtoread.html).
- S. Keshav. [How to read a paper](http://ccr.sigcomm.org/online/files/p83-keshavA.pdf).

Remember that the above articles provide advice, not mandatory rules.
Do what works best for you.

## Publicizing your research.

- Reasons for getting the word out.
- Solicit opinions and advice.
    Presenting your research to an audience is an opportunity to solicit advice
    for improvements and future research directions.
- Network with the research community.
    The people you meet while presenting your research might become future
    collaborators, research advisors, company references, et cetera. Some
    research conferences have industry sessions where you get to network with
    companies and get a foot in the door for a job or internship.
- Add to your resume.
    Research presentations–whether in the form of a paper, poster, talk,
    et cetera–serve as a evidence and recognition for your research, which
    can augment your resume. If you're applying to research-oriented graduate
    programs, then this evidence of research accomplishment further demonstrates
    your ability to produce presentable research.

### Pitt CSC talks.

You can schedule a talk at a club meeting!

### Pitt's research exhibitions.

Pitt hosts various research exhibitions and poster sessions at various times of
the year.

### Honors college thesis.

Pitt Honors College offers the [BPhil degree](https://www.honorscollege.pitt.edu/bphil),
which requires submitting and defending a thesis.

### Conference and journal papers.

Conferences are the primary venue for publishing scholarly CS research (this is
different from other scientific disciplines, where journals are typically the
primary venue). Conferences and journals employ peer review, where reviewers
provide feedback and decide whether to accept a paper for publication.

Terminology sidenote: in conferences, reviewers are members of a
*program committee*.

If a conference paper is accepted, one of the authors is expected to give an
oral (PowerPoint) presentation and engage with the audience in a Q&A session.
There are exceptions to this rule: at some very large conferences (e.g: NeurIPS,
ICCV), an author presents a poster instead of an oral presentation.

Beware of predatory conferences and journals. They have low publishing
standards and charge ridiculous fees (that's why they exist). If you get an
unsolicited email asking for you to submit to a conference/journal, there's a
decent chance that the venue is predatory.

### Conference posters and short papers.

Some conferences also accept posters or short-paper publications. Posters and
short papers generally have higher acceptance rates than full-on research
papers. Moreover, it's generally more acceptable to submit in-progress research
and early results in posters and short papers.

Typically, if you want to present a poster, then you need to actually first
write and submit a short paper or extended abstract, rather than submitting a
digital version of a poster. The conference will decide whether to invite you to
present a poster based on the contents of your written deliverable.

### Workshops.

Academic workshops are similar to conferences: they feature posters and/or oral
presentations. Workshops differ from conferences in term of size–they're
smaller–and scope–they tend to focus on a more narrow topic.

Workshops, like conference posters or short papers, are also more welcoming of
in-progress research and preliminary results, and their acceptance rates
are also often higher than full conference research papers.

The narrow topic of workshops often attracts that topic's forerunners, giving
the workshop attendee a very good opportunity to network with important people.

There are exceptions: some workshops in theoretical CS are as competitive as
top conferences.

### Student research competitions.

Some conferences host [student research competitions](https://src.acm.org/).
Generally, the process is as follows:
1. Submit an extended abstract or other short written deliverable.
2. If the program committee accepts your abstract, then present a poster
    at the conference. Judges will talk to you about your poster and ask
    questions.
3. If judges like your poster, then give an oral presentation and have a
    Q&A with judges.
4. If judges like your presentation, win glory, prizes, and $$$ in a big
    awards ceremony!

Undergraduate and graduate students compete separately, so don't worry about
getting pwned by PhDs with 5 years of experience.

### arXiv.

arXiv is an online repository of preprints–early, non-reviewed scholarly
papers. Online preprints facilitate rapid sharing of new research. Some fields
(e.g: machine learning) upload dozens of preprints per day onto arXiv.

In addition to sharing preprints, you may also use arXiv to upload complete
research that is difficult to publish (e.g.: negative results, which are harder
to publish in conferences or journals).

If you intend to submit an article to both a conference/journal and arXiv, then
check the conference's/journal's policy on uploading to preprint servers. Some
prohibit concurrent submissions to both.
